Welcome! In this lecture we are going to be controlling the camera's rotation,
using some mouse input, as you can see me doing here, [Laughs] making you all
feel really sick by the way that I'm moving around here! OK,
so let's dive right in, before you all vomit! [Laughs]
So it's all very well as rotating just
by time, but what if we want to get some better rotation,
some rotation by mouse input, so that we can
really effectively control where we're looking and
point the basketball in the right direction.
So the thing I want to introduce you to is, if you we look in
Window and then we... In actual fact, sorry, if we go to Edit,
then down to Project Settings, and what we're looking
for is the Input menu item. And
you'll see in the Inspector, we get an Input Manager pop-up and something called Axes. You need to
expand Axes to see what we're talking about. And Axes are basically
the things like joy sticks or mice that you can
use to get analog input, like this,
analog input, which we can also talk about as floating point numbers.
So how do we get hold of our mouse input? Well we
just do something like, so if I create a new float
mouseX.
Then, I'm going to do an Input.Get
Axis. You see that, Axis corresponding
to the Axes in the Input Manager!
And then, we've got to put the name of the axis, so
if we have a look we want Mouse X.
So ("Mouse space X")
like so. It's not so nice that it uses strings. You know the keyboard
previously had a way that would correct it, automatically catch it when we
compile, our Editor would show a little squiggly line, if..but
here I can just type total nonsense and it won't pick it up.
That's not so nice but unfortunately that is the way we need to do things.
So if we hit play,
let's have a look and see whether this has been affected
at all. No, at the moment, it has not
been affected, but
that is because we haven't changed here. What I want to do is put mouse
X into our rotation.
Let's see what that does!
So now, you see, as I turn my mouse
I am getting a rotation in the X and Y
axes. Excellent! [Laughs] So I'm not getting it in the
Y axis, rather I am just getting it in the X. So we can
rotate left and right. Now, I want to do up and down,
so we can do this in a similar way.
OK, so here is your challenge! I would like you to
attempt to rotate up and down now. So you'll need to
use the mouse Y axis and create a new variable for that, and I'll let you
figure out how to do the exact details of that. And then, you need to
choose which dimension you want to rotate in and update the
Quaternion accordingly. So pause this video and have a
go at that! OK welcome back! I hope
you've all had a go! Remember that attempting really does help it stick!
So let's have a look! Well I want to create
a new axis, so I'm going to copy and paste this and create a mouse
Y float. And we're going to get the Y axis here
and then I want to rotate it. Now let's just
put it in randomly somewhere, mouseY somewhere like that and
figure out where it is rotating. OK, so let's hit
play! And that' seems to be
going up and down but kind of in the wrong direction.
So how can we solve that? Well quite easily, we can put a minus
sign, and that should change the direction of that rotation.
So hit play and now you can
see it's going in the right direction, but it's a little bit slow. So how do we fix that?
Again, very simply all we need to do is have a rotation speed
float. So
this is very much the same as we did in our Ball
Spawner. So remember here we had a velocity that we
increased it by. In fact, that's not a velocity! A velocity has
the direction, so it's actually a speed so let's rename that! It's a good
good practice to rename things, when you notice that they are named incorrectly. So
in VisualStudio you can just right-click here and do Rename. On Mac
you need to click, and then there's a little arrow to the side which you can click and then
it allows you to rename. In fact, on MonoDevelop it's probably
slightly different; I think a right-click and rename will probably do the trick. So
I'm going to rename this to be speed
instead. Then, I hit the Apply button
and go back to our camera rotation. And here I've got rotationSpeed,
and I'm just going to perhaps do 5 here as well.
And then, I'm going to just multiply by rotationSpeed
in both of these cases,
like so.
OK, now let's go back to Unity,
play,
and here we are! Now it is rotating a little bit better!
And you'll [Laughs] notice that we have some pretty funky behavior going
on here, as we rotate, and we're going to sort all of that out in the
next lecture, with a Camera Gimbal. OK,
see you there!